---
layout: post
title: "Week #11"
date: 2019-01-07
categories: [Summary of weeks]
---
### Experiments and coding
* After the observation of the overfitting in the network after training, I decide to increase the weight decay.

|Number| Data source   | Training Sample  | epoch of training  | Batch size | learning rate | cropped size| momentum |Weight decay| Mimimum loss attained | the result|
|----|:----:|:-----:|:-----:|:----:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|---:|
|01|KITTI|160|20|8|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|256|0.9|0.0005|0.608|good|
|02|KITTI|160|100|8|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|256|0.9|0.0005|0.612|good|
|03|KITTI|160|20|12|0.05， every 5 epoch divided by 5|256|0.9|0.0005|0.617|good|
|04|KITTI|480|10|1|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|300|0.9|0.0005|0.604|good|
|05|KITTI|160|10|1|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|original size|0.9|0.0005|0.595|good|
|06|KITTI|160|10|2|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|256，1024|0.9|0.0005|0.601|good|
|07|KITTI|160|10|2|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|256,1024|0.9|0.005|0.606|good|
|08|KITTI|160|10|1|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|original size|0.9|0.05|0.685|bad|
|09|KITTI|160|10|1|0.05, every 5 epoch divided by 5|original size|0.9|0.005|0.614|good|

* Add the pixel mapping for the mask, convert the [0,255] pixel value to classes. For KITTI dataset, found 29 classes in total. And for BMCC dataset, there are 3 classes.

### Paper review
#### Deep Neural Netwoks Segment Neuronal Membrances in Electron Microscopy Images
##### Contribution:
* Use a window center one pixel to predict the class of this pixel, i.e. a patch based image Segmentation
* Use Foveation and nonuniform sampling to disregard the fine details and the margin part of the window
* Use several networks with different architecture and average the output of these networks
* Win the ISBI challenge 2012

##### Drawbacks:
* It's slow because for every patch the network must run separately
* There is a trade-off between the localization information and the context information, i.e. if the patch size is bigger, the context information is larger while need more max-pooling layers, which reduce the localization information.

### My understand of the image segmentation
**Image classification**

Goal: Given an image, assign a class label to the image.

**Image segmentation**

Goal: Give an image, assign a mask to the image. The mask represents the score value for every pixel in the image. i.e. The image segmentation problem can be considered as the pixel classification promblem.

### MRI images received
Received 330 cases of MRI images. The next step should be playing with the real project.
